In the previous video, we already calculate
Total IP and Subnetmask.
Now in this video, we are going to calculate Network IP and Broadcast IP.
Okay let’s just start.
Remember that the Network IP is the first
IP in the network.
So the Network IP is must be 0. Do you remember why?
Because the number in the IP Address is always
between 0 until 255.
So that is why the first IP or Network IP
will always be 0.
Okay now we have network IP in the first block
subnet.
If you remember in the previous video, I already
show you about block subnet.
And here, 0 is the network IP in the first block
subnet.
Now let’s calculate the network in the next
block subnet.
The network in the second block subnet will
be 0 plus by total IP,  which is 16.
The result is 16.
For the third block subnet, the network is
16 plus by total IP again, which is 16.
So the result is 32.
Fourth block subnet, the network is 32 plus
by total IP again, so the result is 48.
Fifth block subnet, the network is 48 plus
by total IP again, the result is 64.
Sixth block subnet, the network is 64 plus
by total IP again, the result is 80.
We can doing this until we found 256.
If we reach 256, we can stop there.
Because remember that the number in IP Address
is only between 0 until 255.
So if we reach 256, we can stop.
But actually we don’t need to calculate
until reach 256.
Sometimes we just need to calculate until
we find some block subnet.
In this case we are enough to have six block subnet.
Okay, now we have Network IP until sixth block
subnet.
Next, let’s calculate the Broadcast IP.
The Broadcast IP in the first block subnet
is 16 minus by 1, the result is 15.
For second block subnet, 32 minus by 1, which
is 31.
Third block subnet, 48 minus by 1, which is
47.
Fourth block subnet, 64 minus by 1, which
is 63.
Fifth block subnet, 80 minus by 1, which is
79.
Okay, now we have Network IP and Broadcast
IP until fifth block subnet.
First block subnet is 0 until 15, second block
subnet is 16-31, third block subnet is 32
until 47, fourth block subnet is 48 until
63, and last fifth block subnet is 64 until 79.
Next, we need to determine, which block subnet
we will use.
In this case, I will use the seconds block
subnet.
So the network IP is 16, and the Broadcast
IP is 31.
Let’s write it, the network IP is 172.16.10.16,
this 16 is the result of our calculation before
and the broadcast IP is 172.16.10.31, this
31 is the result of our calculation before.
Okay now we have done calculating the Network
IP and the broadcast IP, and also we already
determine that we will use the seconds block
subnet.
Last, we need to calculate Range IP.
Remember that Network IP and Broadcast IP
will never can be used.
Let’s try it in cisco packet tracer.
We are going to use the network IP 172.16.10.16
with subnetmask 255.255.255.240,
and we will see that we will get an error.
Go to PC and set the IP to 172.16.10.16 and
the subnetmask is 255.255.255.240,
Okay here we can see that we get an error.
It will also the same if we use broadcast IP.
We will also get an error.
Let’s try it, 172.16.10.31 and the subnetmask
is 255.255.255.240.
Okay here, we can see that we also get an
error.
So the conclusion is that Network IP and Broadcast
IP will never can be used.
And the IP that we can use is the Range IP.
Okay, now let’s calculate the Range IP.
Here we can see that the network is 16, so
the range IP is start from 17 until before 31
which is 30.
So the Range IP is 172.16.10.17 until 172.16.10.30.
We can use these IP for our 12 PC.
Now let’s try to configure the IP address
again in the cisco packet tracer.
But now, we are going to use the right IP,
so we won’t get errors.
Let’s say we use 172.16.10.17 and the subnetmask
is 255.255.255.240.
Okay here we can see that we don’t get an
errors.
Okay I think enough for this video, in the
next video, we are going to learn subnetting
again with another case.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next
video!